San Bernardino Valley College STEM-MESA Center
About STEM-MESA
The services provided at the STEM-MESA Center are here to help you succeed at San Bernardino Valley College by providing FREE TUTORING, academic support, study space, access to technology, and academic excellence workshops in multiple subjects to a diverse group of learners. We take special care to empower students with learning strategies and skills needed to become independent learners on the path towards academic success!

Tutoring Services
Get help understanding your classes and completing your college coursework with the help of peer tutors. Our tutors are here to provide a supportive learning environment to any enrolled student seeking academic support. Regular tutoring sessions may help you better understand your courses and provide you with the skills and structure required to earn higher grades. We offer in-person tutoring Monday-Saturday, no appointment necessary. We also offer online tutoring.
Free resource rentals while in the STEM-MESA Center:

iPADs

Laptops

Textbooks

STEM Program
The STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Program is housed under the Student Success Center. The program is designed to assist low income and other traditionally underrepresented students and prepare them to pursue diverse careers in various STEM fields. It assists students in Math and Science courses and prepares them to transfer to four-year universities.
Benefits of the program include:

S-STEM Scholarships to CSUSB

Specialized Workshops, Events, and Fieldtrips

Instructor-led Ted-Talks and Math and Science Mentors

Dedicated Counseling for STEM Majors

Mid-term and Final Pizza Study Jams

MESA Program
MESA's community college level program produces a diverse population of transfer-ready students who will continue their educational journeys in four-year institutions and successfully attain math, engineering, and science degrees.
Program benefits:

Academic and career counseling throughout the year

Education planning for transfer to a four-year institution

Development of fundamental skills in core science, engineering, and math courses

Academic Excellence Workshops (AEWs)

Individual and group mentoring

Access to workshops, guest speakers, study sessions, and field trips

Transfer preparation and scholarship application support

Develop professional relationships with professors and peers

Learn how to find and apply to summer research and internship opportunities

STEM-MESA Center Contact Information
Phone: 909-384-4463

Email: stemmesacenter@valleycollege.edu

Location: Physical Sciences Room 121

Workshop and Tutoring Information
Math 151: Eva Del Valle (Mondays-10am-1pm, Via Zoom)

Math 250: Garret Wulc (Monday/Wednesday-11:30am-12:30pm & 3:15-4:15pm at PS-132. Tuesday/Thursday-5-8pm, Via Zoom)

CHEM 101: Agus n Figueroa (Tuesday/Thursday-1-3pm at PS-135. Wednesday-10am-12pm at PS-198)

BIOL 205: Jaron Colunga (Tuesday/Thurday-1-2pm at HLS-238/240)

BIOL 205: Jessica Ysiano (Monday/Wednesday-12:30-2:30pm at HLS-238/240)

CHEM 150: Aryah Seraj (Saturday-9:30am-12pm, Via Zoom)

CHEM 213: Ma Pautz (Monday-2-4pm at PS-142)

Additional Information
Enrollment Rules: Only currently enrolled SBVC or CHC students may use the center. A current student ID card is required for all resource rentals.

Tutor Limitations: Tutors cannot help with quizzes, tests, or exams.

Sign-in Policy: Sign-in is required upon entry and sign-out is required upon leaving.